Pastor Brent McQuay: Foreign. Welcome to another episode of Between
Pastor Brent McQuay: Sermons, where we are continuing our conversation
Pastor Brent McQuay: from the Sunday sermon. Turning that monologue
Pastor Brent McQuay: into dialogue. I'm Pastor Brent. I get
Pastor Brent McQuay: to be the lead pastor at Disciples
Pastor Brent McQuay: Church, and I'm glad you're hanging out
Pastor Brent McQuay: with us today. And hopefully this conversation
Pastor Brent McQuay: will be beneficial to you. It's going
Pastor Brent McQuay: to be a little bit of a
Pastor Brent McQuay: shorter conversation today because apparently I don't
Pastor Brent McQuay: pay attention to the clock very well.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But in order to help us do
Pastor Brent McQuay: that, Tyisha Beasley, keep us on point
Pastor Brent McQuay: today, focused and directed.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I love the accountability, self awareness.
Pastor Sol McQuay: It's all me.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I love it.
Pastor Brent McQuay: People are gonna be like, wow, that
Pastor Brent McQuay: was a really short conversation with your
Pastor Brent McQuay: wife. You don't love her very much,
Pastor Brent McQuay: do you?
Pastor Sol McQuay: And I like to talk, and I
Pastor Sol McQuay: have to not talk. Thank you very
Pastor Sol McQuay: much.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Oh, my gosh. I'm so happy. I'm
Ti'heasha Beasley: happy to be here today. You guys
Ti'heasha Beasley: are matching a little bit with your
Ti'heasha Beasley: gray tones. So cute.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Look at that.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I love it. So it's giving me
Ti'heasha Beasley: all the vibes.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Super intentional, by the way.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Super.
Pastor Sol McQuay: No, it wasn't.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Well, I'm happy, too, because my sister's
Ti'heasha Beasley: on the show. Yay. You gotta do
Ti'heasha Beasley: fingers. Fingers.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Okay, whatever.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And you guys need me to leave?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Is this just. You're just gonna hang
Pastor Brent McQuay: out and talk.
Ti'heasha Beasley: The two of you?
Pastor Brent McQuay: My presence is not necessary.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Sure. We could do this for 30,
Ti'heasha Beasley: 45 minutes? For sure. Yes. So I'm
Ti'heasha Beasley: just happy to be here because you
Ti'heasha Beasley: preached an amazing message, and we are
Ti'heasha Beasley: still continuing the conversation from our called
Ti'heasha Beasley: series. So yesterday you had an opportunity
Ti'heasha Beasley: to deliver the message, which is why
Ti'heasha Beasley: you are joining us today.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Yes.
Ti'heasha Beasley: How you feeling? I mean, you go
Ti'heasha Beasley: from the stage to the seat, it
Ti'heasha Beasley: just.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Just keep on rolling. You just ride
Pastor Sol McQuay: the wave.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And then she's leading the Devo lady
Pastor Brent McQuay: today.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Yes.
Ti'heasha Beasley: How much coffee did you have to
Ti'heasha Beasley: prepare for?
Pastor Sol McQuay: I did all of the coffee. I
Pastor Sol McQuay: need all of the coffee. Like, yesterday,
Pastor Sol McQuay: I brought a coffee from home, and
Pastor Sol McQuay: then Bren got me a coffee from
Pastor Sol McQuay: Dunkin Donuts, and I had so much
Pastor Sol McQuay: coffee, it was just.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Oh, my goodness.
Pastor Sol McQuay: It was great.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Okay. Still overflow. So give us a
Ti'heasha Beasley: little summary of yesterday's message. Who did
Ti'heasha Beasley: we cover in the. In the series?
Pastor Sol McQuay: So it was funny because I talked
Pastor Sol McQuay: about Saul, King Saul in the Bible.
Pastor Sol McQuay: In the. In the Old Testament. And
Pastor Sol McQuay: the funny thing is that that was
Pastor Sol McQuay: not supposed to be my subject.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It wasn't?
Pastor Sol McQuay: No. I was supposed to be talking
Pastor Sol McQuay: about Peter. That was. When we did
Pastor Sol McQuay: our calendar meeting a year ago, we
Pastor Sol McQuay: had Peter as the person that I
Pastor Sol McQuay: was supposed to talk about. But then
Pastor Sol McQuay: we're going to be doing a series
Pastor Sol McQuay: here. Coming up on this.
Ti'heasha Beasley: You give the spoilers a little.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Just a little bit. Just a little
Pastor Sol McQuay: bit. So we were talking about it
Pastor Sol McQuay: and we were saying, okay, we cannot
Pastor Sol McQuay: just do all of this stuff, you
Pastor Sol McQuay: know, like, go all in the background
Pastor Sol McQuay: of Peter if that is what is
Pastor Sol McQuay: going to be coming up in just
Pastor Sol McQuay: a couple of weeks. So it will
Pastor Sol McQuay: just be too redundant. So we were
Pastor Sol McQuay: trying to figure out a different person
Pastor Sol McQuay: and we started making a list of
Pastor Sol McQuay: all of the different people that could
Pastor Sol McQuay: be good to talk about. And I
Pastor Sol McQuay: was like, no, I don't feel like
Pastor Sol McQuay: that person. No, everybody talks about that
Pastor Sol McQuay: person. No, I kept just saying no
Pastor Sol McQuay: to everybody. And the only one that
Pastor Sol McQuay: was left was Sol. And I was
Pastor Sol McQuay: like, I guess I get Sol. And
Pastor Sol McQuay: Brent literally said, are you sure?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Sol McQuay: And I said, get the bad boy.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Why not?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Okay. So I would say, why did
Ti'heasha Beasley: you say, are you sure?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Just because everybody else on the list.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So we did pretty much very quickly
Pastor Brent McQuay: narrowed down to Old Testament.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Just for the thematic. But then going
Pastor Brent McQuay: through the list, there was only one
Pastor Brent McQuay: person that was like the anti calling
Pastor Brent McQuay: guy. It was like, everybody else is
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, learn from great people. Do what
Pastor Brent McQuay: they did. And then you get the
Pastor Brent McQuay: Saul. And it's like, don't do what
Pastor Brent McQuay: this guy does. And so I was
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, well, Saul, you're right in the
Pastor Brent McQuay: middle. It could fit, it could work,
Pastor Brent McQuay: but that's up to you. Like, do
Pastor Brent McQuay: you really want to talk about all
Pastor Brent McQuay: the things you shouldn't be doing?
Pastor Sol McQuay: So I said, yes. I was very
Pastor Sol McQuay: excited. I'm like, let's do it. Let's
Pastor Sol McQuay: do Saul. And as I started studying
Pastor Sol McQuay: and trying to put everything together, I
Pastor Sol McQuay: regretted picking Saul just as God did.
Pastor Sol McQuay: I was like, I regret that I
Pastor Sol McQuay: picked this guy.
Ti'heasha Beasley: This is horrible because it was so
Ti'heasha Beasley: much.
Pastor Sol McQuay: I was like, oh, Lord, where do
Pastor Sol McQuay: I go from here?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Where do I go from that statement?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Like that is, if you want to
Ti'heasha Beasley: be a top tier failure, be like
Ti'heasha Beasley: Saul. Not only was he rejected in
Ti'heasha Beasley: scripture by God, he is rejected still
Ti'heasha Beasley: in 2020.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Listen, I was reading all of his
Pastor Sol McQuay: story and I was like, I don't
Pastor Sol McQuay: even know how to narrow it down.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Like, it feels like every single thing
Pastor Sol McQuay: that you read is bad. It's terrible.
Pastor Sol McQuay: So trying to figure it out, what
Pastor Sol McQuay: to focus on, you know, was. Was
Pastor Sol McQuay: challenging. Then I was trying to. To
Pastor Sol McQuay: come up with like, maybe I have
Pastor Sol McQuay: three points, you know, and like, I
Pastor Sol McQuay: have like the don't do this, don't
Pastor Sol McQuay: do that, and kind of like, just
Pastor Sol McQuay: make it everything broad. But you couldn't
Pastor Sol McQuay: because it was just so much. It
Pastor Sol McQuay: was. It was quite challenging to actually
Pastor Sol McQuay: put the whole message together in a
Pastor Sol McQuay: way that people can actually get something
Pastor Sol McQuay: out of it, that you can actually
Pastor Sol McQuay: see yourself in it. Because I think
Pastor Sol McQuay: that that was the main thing for
Pastor Sol McQuay: me is we all have been there.
Pastor Sol McQuay: And I think the more that you
Pastor Sol McQuay: actually study people in the Bible and
Pastor Sol McQuay: the more that you realize that these
Pastor Sol McQuay: are real people, that it is not
Pastor Sol McQuay: just fiction, you know, it is not
Pastor Sol McQuay: just somebody that has been made up.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Sol McQuay: It's real people that did real things
Pastor Sol McQuay: that you realize. I have done that
Pastor Sol McQuay: too. You know, like, I have been
Pastor Sol McQuay: feeling that way too. And I think
Pastor Sol McQuay: that that was the, The. The hard
Pastor Sol McQuay: thing for me with all of it
Pastor Sol McQuay: was the fact that if we really
Pastor Sol McQuay: are honest and like, we. If we
Pastor Sol McQuay: put all of our church talk to
Pastor Sol McQuay: the side and are like, oh, we
Pastor Sol McQuay: are holy. Like, if you are real,
Pastor Sol McQuay: real. You have experienced some of this
Pastor Sol McQuay: stuff and you have done some of
Pastor Sol McQuay: this stuff too.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Sol McQuay: And I think that that was when
Pastor Sol McQuay: I realized what this has to be
Pastor Sol McQuay: is a warning. Because if we, if
Pastor Sol McQuay: we keep going in this direction, the
Pastor Sol McQuay: call of God in our life is
Pastor Sol McQuay: going to be choked.
Ti'heasha Beasley: O. Okay. That was so good. I
Ti'heasha Beasley: mean, I feel like you could just
Ti'heasha Beasley: keep talking and we can benefit from
Ti'heasha Beasley: it. I. I love how you are
Ti'heasha Beasley: unpacking, like, I mean, laying out his
Ti'heasha Beasley: life and how this is a warning.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I love that statement. So let's go
Ti'heasha Beasley: back to the top where he was
Ti'heasha Beasley: actually chosen by God. So, Pastor Brent,
Ti'heasha Beasley: why do you feel like he. He
Ti'heasha Beasley: was chosen by God when these, these
Ti'heasha Beasley: group of people were saying, we give
Ti'heasha Beasley: us a king, why do you think
Ti'heasha Beasley: God chose him?
Pastor Brent McQuay: So I, I don't think God chose
Pastor Brent McQuay: him for God's benefit. Right. So, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: there's a. There's a distinction in when
Pastor Brent McQuay: God calls Saul to be king over
Pastor Brent McQuay: the nation and when God calls David
Pastor Brent McQuay: to be king. When God calls David,
Pastor Brent McQuay: he specifically says, I've chosen him for
Pastor Brent McQuay: myself with Saul. It's not that. So
Pastor Brent McQuay: I think God basically just gave them
Pastor Brent McQuay: exactly what they were looking for. So,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, if they were up to themselves
Pastor Brent McQuay: to choose somebody, they would have chosen
Pastor Brent McQuay: the tall, dark, and handsome guy. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: they, they would have picked this guy.
Pastor Brent McQuay: He's head and shoulders above everybody else.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, they'd look at him and be
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, that's a king. That's a. Because
Pastor Brent McQuay: he's. He. It. I love the comparison.
Pastor Brent McQuay: David's story, it's. Don't look at the
Pastor Brent McQuay: outside, look at the inside. Saul is
Pastor Brent McQuay: very much, look at the outside, don't
Pastor Brent McQuay: look at the inside. The inside's a
Pastor Brent McQuay: mess. Just look at the outside, and
Pastor Brent McQuay: we see that unravel. So I think
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's one of those where it's like.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So it may be a cautionary tale
Pastor Brent McQuay: for all of us. Like, sometimes God
Pastor Brent McQuay: will give you exactly what you're asking
Pastor Brent McQuay: for, but it's not for your benefit.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Y' all are on fire this morning.
Pastor Sol McQuay: We ought to go fast so we
Pastor Sol McQuay: like, okay, here we go.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Y' all going hard. What is it
Ti'heasha Beasley: called? Clock it. Clock it.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I have no idea. I'm too old
Pastor Brent McQuay: for that.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It's a TikTok thing.
Pastor Sol McQuay: See, I don't have TikTok. We were
Pastor Sol McQuay: just talking about how I don't have
Pastor Sol McQuay: TikTok.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That's a realm of tick tock. I
Pastor Brent McQuay: don't know. So.
Ti'heasha Beasley: So I love that. So really, let's.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Let's stay there for a little bit
Ti'heasha Beasley: because we do know a lot of
Ti'heasha Beasley: people who are very talented and they
Ti'heasha Beasley: look like they fit the job in
Ti'heasha Beasley: most places. Especially we see that in
Ti'heasha Beasley: ministry. So as leaders, how do you
Ti'heasha Beasley: not get the desire to just put
Ti'heasha Beasley: people in places because they are gifted
Ti'heasha Beasley: and look the part? Like, how do
Ti'heasha Beasley: you maneuver that space that.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Honestly, that may be the million dollar
Pastor Brent McQuay: question. And if I can figure that
Pastor Brent McQuay: one out really well, I'd write a
Pastor Brent McQuay: book and retire off the proceeds or
Pastor Brent McQuay: something. I don't know. Yeah, it's. It's
Pastor Brent McQuay: never easy, right? Because, like, no matter
Pastor Brent McQuay: how much you know this stuff, you
Pastor Brent McQuay: find somebody that's charismatic, you find somebody
Pastor Brent McQuay: that, like, fits the part, and you're
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, oh, this guy's going to amazing.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so we've. We've absolutely fallen into
Pastor Brent McQuay: that trap before. And you try and
Pastor Brent McQuay: do your due diligence. You try. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: the interview process, the talking. We have
Pastor Brent McQuay: a series of interview questions that we'll
Pastor Brent McQuay: do, really, to get at somebody's heart
Pastor Brent McQuay: more than just their experience. Not just,
Pastor Brent McQuay: what have you done? But who are
Pastor Brent McQuay: you as a person? But even within
Pastor Brent McQuay: all that, like, we're human beings and
Pastor Brent McQuay: we're flawed, and sometimes you get. You
Pastor Brent McQuay: get blinded by the bright stars.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Um. So, yeah, I'm still figuring that
Pastor Brent McQuay: one out.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Okay.
Pastor Sol McQuay: But I think that's something that we
Pastor Sol McQuay: have learned, you know, the hard way,
Pastor Sol McQuay: really, is that you have to definitely
Pastor Sol McQuay: spend more time with people before you
Pastor Sol McQuay: just say, let's all get on board,
Pastor Sol McQuay: and you just do whatever it is
Pastor Sol McQuay: that you wanted people to do and
Pastor Sol McQuay: actually start looking at people's character. How.
Pastor Sol McQuay: How do they actually live what is
Pastor Sol McQuay: their testimony? What is the fruit of
Pastor Sol McQuay: their lives? Because you can teach skill,
Pastor Sol McQuay: but you cannot teach character.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, that's good.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Right. So if that person has good
Pastor Sol McQuay: character, the skill will come, the training
Pastor Sol McQuay: will come. Things will, you know, you
Pastor Sol McQuay: will be able to get there. But
Pastor Sol McQuay: if somebody is lacking character, that is
Pastor Sol McQuay: something that will take everything down with
Pastor Sol McQuay: it. So. So we have to be
Pastor Sol McQuay: a little more careful with that. And.
Pastor Sol McQuay: And that. That's something that we have
Pastor Sol McQuay: definitely learned.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Sol McQuay: There's so many people that have so
Pastor Sol McQuay: many gifts and that they can make
Pastor Sol McQuay: any place so much better, but the
Pastor Sol McQuay: moment that the character is bringing. Brought
Pastor Sol McQuay: into the situation.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah. Yeah.
Pastor Sol McQuay: All of the talent and all of
Pastor Sol McQuay: the bells and whistles falls short. And
Pastor Sol McQuay: it's like you did so many great
Pastor Sol McQuay: things, but you cannot sustain it.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: There's definitely red flags, and I think
Pastor Brent McQuay: sometimes because of our blindness to how
Pastor Brent McQuay: amazing somebody is on the outside or.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Or even our timetable and how desperate
Pastor Brent McQuay: we are, it's like, oh, this person's
Pastor Brent McQuay: perfect, and we need it right now
Pastor Brent McQuay: that you can. You can be kind
Pastor Brent McQuay: of colorblind and you can see a
Pastor Brent McQuay: red flag. And it's like. Well, it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: a. Kind of a gray flag. I
Pastor Brent McQuay: don't know.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It's all right. It's not quite green
Ti'heasha Beasley: or red. Gray.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Gray area. You know, we will work
Pastor Brent McQuay: on that one as we go.
Ti'heasha Beasley: God's not through with them yet.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Ex. And it's a hard, balanced fight.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Because is there anybody that's perfect? No.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, even. Even our character. I mean,
Pastor Brent McQuay: David, our example from last week, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: man after God's own heart. Awesome character.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Also adulterous. Also, you know, I mean,
Pastor Brent McQuay: you could go even beyond just adultery.
Pastor Brent McQuay: What he did with Bathsheba was an
Pastor Brent McQuay: abuse of power. I mean, that's. Yeah,
Pastor Brent McQuay: yeah. There's. There's words for that of
Pastor Brent McQuay: what David did, and they're not pretty
Pastor Brent McQuay: words. And so. Yeah. So it's tough.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah. So where did Saul. Where did
Ti'heasha Beasley: he start to go wrong? Do you
Ti'heasha Beasley: think he's. He was always this person
Ti'heasha Beasley: in his heart and it was just
Ti'heasha Beasley: exposed over time, or do you think.
Pastor Sol McQuay: I think so.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Okay.
Pastor Sol McQuay: I think that.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Spend a lot of time with Saul.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I'm not giving him no room.
Pastor Sol McQuay: This is the thing. You. You read
Pastor Sol McQuay: the Bible, and as you read his.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Even his calling, the very first thing
Pastor Sol McQuay: that you hear after. After the fact
Pastor Sol McQuay: that he's been anointed and stuff, like,
Pastor Sol McQuay: as he's seeing the signs that Samuel
Pastor Sol McQuay: tell him that he's going to see
Pastor Sol McQuay: God changes his heart. The spirit comes
Pastor Sol McQuay: powerfully upon him, yet he goes immediately
Pastor Sol McQuay: and hides, you know, so, like, it
Pastor Sol McQuay: is not even somebody that is understanding
Pastor Sol McQuay: what God is doing in his life.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Like, he is still very much himself,
Pastor Sol McQuay: you know? And the moment that. That
Pastor Sol McQuay: the first battle is gonna come and
Pastor Sol McQuay: he's on the fields, working the fields,
Pastor Sol McQuay: and then he comes and he hears
Pastor Sol McQuay: like, they want to gouge everybody's eye.
Pastor Sol McQuay: And he's like, what is happening? Instead
Pastor Sol McQuay: of him just trying to say, okay,
Pastor Sol McQuay: God is gonna deliver us. Like, God
Pastor Sol McQuay: can do something. Like, the spirit of
Pastor Sol McQuay: God comes powerful upon him, but yet
Pastor Sol McQuay: he is still threatening people. Like, if
Pastor Sol McQuay: you don't go with me when I
Pastor Sol McQuay: win and I come back, y' all
Pastor Sol McQuay: are gonna pay. Right?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah. Red flag, Peter. Red flag.
Pastor Brent McQuay: From motivational leadership right there.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Like, from the get go, it was
Pastor Sol McQuay: always rage, and it was always, like,
Pastor Sol McQuay: trying to put himself in a position
Pastor Sol McQuay: or trying to hide. Like, it was
Pastor Sol McQuay: like, always that power of. Or that
Pastor Sol McQuay: struggle, I should say, in his person.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Like, it was never just trusting God.
Pastor Sol McQuay: And like, well, God put me here,
Pastor Sol McQuay: so he is gonna be before us
Pastor Sol McQuay: and he is gonna make the way.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Like, he. He kind of always did
Pastor Sol McQuay: his own thing in one way or
Pastor Sol McQuay: another. And I don't think that he
Pastor Sol McQuay: ever was submitted to the will of
Pastor Sol McQuay: God at any point.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Okay, so now I'm okay, so God
Ti'heasha Beasley: is sovereign. He's wise in all his
Ti'heasha Beasley: decisions. He knew that Saul would fail,
Ti'heasha Beasley: and he knew Saul's heart. Why was
Ti'heasha Beasley: he still chosen? I have all the
Ti'heasha Beasley: questions.
Pastor Sol McQuay: And this is the thing. God knew.
Pastor Sol McQuay: And he told Samuel, go tell the
Pastor Sol McQuay: people what is going to happen if
Pastor Sol McQuay: they choose a king. And the people
Pastor Sol McQuay: were like, we don't care. We want
Pastor Sol McQuay: a king. Right? So, like, God told
Pastor Sol McQuay: the people, this is what is going
Pastor Sol McQuay: to happen when a flawed man, somebody
Pastor Sol McQuay: that. That it is not perfect and
Pastor Sol McQuay: holy and righteous leads the way. Is
Pastor Sol McQuay: that what you want? And they say,
Pastor Sol McQuay: yes. So they got what they wanted.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Like, I don't think that any other
Pastor Sol McQuay: person. And I don't know. I don't
Pastor Sol McQuay: know. I don't know people or I
Pastor Sol McQuay: don't know, you know, alternate scenarios. But
Pastor Sol McQuay: I don't think that any single person
Pastor Sol McQuay: would have been better. Like, even, you
Pastor Sol McQuay: see, with David, even though David was
Pastor Sol McQuay: after God's own heart, he was not
Pastor Sol McQuay: a perfect king either.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Right.
Pastor Sol McQuay: You know, so it doesn't matter who
Pastor Sol McQuay: you put in charge of the person
Pastor Sol McQuay: or of the. Or of the nation,
Pastor Sol McQuay: when you are removing God from the
Pastor Sol McQuay: place, you are doomed to fail.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, so that was the setup. It
Ti'heasha Beasley: was more so, like, I don't I'm
Ti'heasha Beasley: still rest. Because when you say God,
Ti'heasha Beasley: we hear the term chosen, and I'm
Ti'heasha Beasley: like, God was intentional. Like, this was
Ti'heasha Beasley: God's plan. But it seemed like more
Ti'heasha Beasley: like a. Not a band aid, but
Ti'heasha Beasley: like, all right, you want somebody, Here
Ti'heasha Beasley: he is. So I don't know if
Ti'heasha Beasley: it was punishment to the people.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I think it's a testimony to free
Pastor Brent McQuay: will.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Okay.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And that. That free will is always
Pastor Brent McQuay: going to be on the table. Wow.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so I think even. Even Saul's
Pastor Brent McQuay: story, you know, it starts off with
Pastor Brent McQuay: God gave him a new heart, but
Pastor Brent McQuay: then you see him kind of clearly
Pastor Brent McQuay: reject that new heart, like, almost immediately.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so it's like, you still have
Pastor Brent McQuay: free will. I would also go so
Pastor Brent McQuay: far as to say that Saul sets
Pastor Brent McQuay: the table for David. Like, it sets
Pastor Brent McQuay: the scenario, the stage for what David
Pastor Brent McQuay: is going to come in. And it
Pastor Brent McQuay: gives us today. And all throughout Jewish
Pastor Brent McQuay: history, like, you have this parallel. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: you can see what happens when you
Pastor Brent McQuay: go for the outside, not the inside.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And you can see what happens when
Pastor Brent McQuay: you go for the inside, not the
Pastor Brent McQuay: outside. Like, you've. You've got Saul versus
Pastor Brent McQuay: David. And. And having this stark contrast
Pastor Brent McQuay: gives us a better understanding of a
Pastor Brent McQuay: lot of things in scripture. So, yeah,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I think that even in its negativity,
Pastor Brent McQuay: even in. It's like, why would you
Pastor Brent McQuay: pick Saul? It's like, well, you know,
Pastor Brent McQuay: there's some good that comes from allowing
Pastor Brent McQuay: the wrong person to be in the
Pastor Brent McQuay: position.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, that's true. That's true. So let's
Ti'heasha Beasley: unpack some of his character. What? Let's.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Let's.
Pastor Sol McQuay: You.
Ti'heasha Beasley: In your sermon, you actually made a
Ti'heasha Beasley: list of some of the things that
Ti'heasha Beasley: that saw was. And I want to
Ti'heasha Beasley: kind of go through the list because
Ti'heasha Beasley: you said this was a warning for
Ti'heasha Beasley: us who are in positions. So let's
Ti'heasha Beasley: see. You said. And I'm looking at
Ti'heasha Beasley: the Bible app for those. A little
Ti'heasha Beasley: plug. Our D.C. bible, apparently. Okay. You
Ti'heasha Beasley: said, saw throughout his calling, he showed
Ti'heasha Beasley: impatience. He was impulsive.
Pastor Sol McQuay: He moved by fear or stop moving
Pastor Sol McQuay: because of fear.
Ti'heasha Beasley: He stopped moving because of fear. He
Ti'heasha Beasley: was prideful. He. He suffered from jealousy,
Ti'heasha Beasley: and he looked to the world for
Ti'heasha Beasley: his answers.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Yep.
Ti'heasha Beasley: So.
Pastor Sol McQuay: And that is just in the rapid
Pastor Sol McQuay: fire, because you actually read the story.
Pastor Sol McQuay: There's a lot of other things that
Pastor Sol McQuay: he did.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Okay, so let's. What's the other thing
Ti'heasha Beasley: says?
Pastor Sol McQuay: Because you're like, he lied.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Okay.
Pastor Sol McQuay: You know, he made excuses. He wanted
Pastor Sol McQuay: to perform, and, you know, he wanted
Pastor Sol McQuay: to say face. He wanted to be
Pastor Sol McQuay: the one honored. He was. What else?
Pastor Sol McQuay: Like, I mean, he. He made excuses
Pastor Sol McQuay: he was created. He making himself the
Pastor Sol McQuay: victim in. In a situation.
Ti'heasha Beasley: He is messed up.
Pastor Sol McQuay: He. He did. He did all of
Pastor Sol McQuay: it. He did all of it. He
Pastor Sol McQuay: did all of it. Yeah. So he
Pastor Sol McQuay: was arrogant.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, so.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But also lazy.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That's a lie.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Also lazy.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Oh yeah, he was very lazy. The
Pastor Brent McQuay: battle story that you're like, this is
Pastor Brent McQuay: Brent's favorite battle. Saul's taking a nap
Pastor Brent McQuay: under a tree during the battle. Yeah,
Pastor Brent McQuay: it says he's resting against a pomegranate
Pastor Brent McQuay: tree.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That's crazy. I think this was a
Ti'heasha Beasley: great lesson for, like you said, we
Ti'heasha Beasley: have to be careful what we ask
Ti'heasha Beasley: for for. Because they really desperately wanted
Ti'heasha Beasley: him and he was all types of
Ti'heasha Beasley: messed up. So like, for people watching
Ti'heasha Beasley: this, I feel like we have a
Ti'heasha Beasley: lot of talented people in the world.
Ti'heasha Beasley: How can they really like use this
Ti'heasha Beasley: passage and like see it as, like
Ti'heasha Beasley: you said that warning message? Like outside
Ti'heasha Beasley: of just watching his character flaws and
Ti'heasha Beasley: things of that nature, what are some
Ti'heasha Beasley: things that they can start? Like if
Ti'heasha Beasley: they see these things, how can they
Ti'heasha Beasley: work them out in their lives so
Ti'heasha Beasley: that they don't be rejected from wherever
Ti'heasha Beasley: God is trying to move them to?
Pastor Sol McQuay: I think that self awareness is huge.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Like, you cannot make excuses for your
Pastor Sol McQuay: own behavior. And I think that a
Pastor Sol McQuay: lot of people, we tend to do
Pastor Sol McQuay: that, right? Like, you don't want to
Pastor Sol McQuay: be the one that is called out.
Pastor Sol McQuay: You don't want to think about yourself
Pastor Sol McQuay: as somebody that is doing something wrong.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Like every. All the time somebody else
Pastor Sol McQuay: is wrong. But you're the one that
Pastor Sol McQuay: is right 100 of times all the
Pastor Sol McQuay: time. Right? Like, like, no, they were
Pastor Sol McQuay: the ones being me. No, they were
Pastor Sol McQuay: the ones that didn't understand. So I
Pastor Sol McQuay: think that self awareness is key. You
Pastor Sol McQuay: have to know where you are if
Pastor Sol McQuay: you want to get better. So. And
Pastor Sol McQuay: you have to like, look at yourself
Pastor Sol McQuay: truly. Like, you cannot put like any
Pastor Sol McQuay: type of filter to try to say,
Pastor Sol McQuay: okay, but I can justify this because
Pastor Sol McQuay: like, if you knew what I was
Pastor Sol McQuay: going through, then this would be justified.
Pastor Sol McQuay: So let's not look at that. No,
Pastor Sol McQuay: no, no. You have to look at
Pastor Sol McQuay: everything and say, okay, this is where
Pastor Sol McQuay: I am. How can I just surrender
Pastor Sol McQuay: everything to God? You know? But you
Pastor Sol McQuay: will not do that if you are
Pastor Sol McQuay: not self aware. I think that a
Pastor Sol McQuay: lot of people love the calling. You
Pastor Sol McQuay: know, like you tell them you're called
Pastor Sol McQuay: and they're like, yay. Because we all
Pastor Sol McQuay: want the calling, we all want the
Pastor Sol McQuay: title, we all want the position, but
Pastor Sol McQuay: none of us want the discipline to
Pastor Sol McQuay: actually get there. Like, you don't want
Pastor Sol McQuay: to go in the process to getting
Pastor Sol McQuay: there. You just want to just arrive
Pastor Sol McQuay: because you were called. Yeah. And that's
Pastor Sol McQuay: not how it works. Like, we all
Pastor Sol McQuay: have been given this opportunity by God
Pastor Sol McQuay: to join his mission, which is a
Pastor Sol McQuay: huge honor, you know, but God could
Pastor Sol McQuay: choose to do it any other way.
Pastor Sol McQuay: And he decided, hey, I'm gonna partner
Pastor Sol McQuay: with you. So for us, it should
Pastor Sol McQuay: be an honor, not something that it
Pastor Sol McQuay: is already just given.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Sol McQuay: You know, and I think that a
Pastor Sol McQuay: lot of people just take it for
Pastor Sol McQuay: granted. Like, I am called, so that
Pastor Sol McQuay: means that I. That God needs me.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Like, no, no, God does not need
Pastor Sol McQuay: you, but he chooses to use us.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Sol McQuay: So I think that understanding where you
Pastor Sol McQuay: are and being vulnerable in that space
Pastor Sol McQuay: so that you can get better, so
Pastor Sol McQuay: that you can get stronger, so that
Pastor Sol McQuay: in the moments that you are being
Pastor Sol McQuay: weak, allowing people that you trust to
Pastor Sol McQuay: be able to speak into that, you
Pastor Sol McQuay: know, to say, hey, you are being
Pastor Sol McQuay: prideful again without you just getting defensive,
Pastor Sol McQuay: but actually understanding that it isn't from
Pastor Sol McQuay: a point, a place of. Of love
Pastor Sol McQuay: that they can say, hey, you gotta
Pastor Sol McQuay: settle down a little bit. I think
Pastor Sol McQuay: that all of those things will help
Pastor Sol McQuay: you. But when you don't listen to
Pastor Sol McQuay: any of that, like, you know, like
Pastor Sol McQuay: Samuel was coming to him and saying,
Pastor Sol McQuay: hey, you're doing the wrong thing. And
Pastor Sol McQuay: he kept making excuses, you know, like,
Pastor Sol McQuay: well, it was a people. Well, it
Pastor Sol McQuay: was a this. But still honor me.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Right. But still come with me. But
Pastor Sol McQuay: still do for me. No, like, you
Pastor Sol McQuay: don't get it, you know? So I
Pastor Sol McQuay: think that when. When you have the
Pastor Sol McQuay: people that come, when you have the
Pastor Sol McQuay: Holy Spirit say, this is exactly what
Pastor Sol McQuay: I'm talking about, you need to listen
Pastor Sol McQuay: and you need to actually work to
Pastor Sol McQuay: get better.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah. So you did mention Sam. Was
Ti'heasha Beasley: it Samuel you just said that came
Ti'heasha Beasley: to him? Yes. So you mentioned him.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And let's. Let's stay there a little
Ti'heasha Beasley: bit because I do feel like that
Ti'heasha Beasley: was a part of, I guess Saul's
Ti'heasha Beasley: community. And community is very important. Like
Ti'heasha Beasley: having that people in your lives who
Ti'heasha Beasley: can help you. See, maybe this is
Ti'heasha Beasley: like some. A point that I'm stuck
Ti'heasha Beasley: on. When Samuel finally came to Saul,
Ti'heasha Beasley: was it kind of like already too
Ti'heasha Beasley: late or was there a warning period?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Because I.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Which time?
Ti'heasha Beasley: So it was several times. Because I
Ti'heasha Beasley: feel like I saw. Like maybe I
Ti'heasha Beasley: shouldn't have watched Chosen because I remember
Ti'heasha Beasley: that episode. So like Samuel did come
Ti'heasha Beasley: to Saul, but I feel like it
Ti'heasha Beasley: wasn't warnings before that. So is that
Ti'heasha Beasley: accurate? I'm asking my. The Bible scholars.
Pastor Sol McQuay: So I think there's. So we see
Pastor Sol McQuay: in the Bible like when. When Saul
Pastor Sol McQuay: does the unauthorized offering, Samuel tells him,
Pastor Sol McQuay: I'm gonna be coming in seven days.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Wait for me. We're gonna do this.
Pastor Sol McQuay: So is it a warning? Not necessarily,
Pastor Sol McQuay: but he is telling him, this is
Pastor Sol McQuay: what you need to do, and he
Pastor Sol McQuay: doesn't do.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And a warning isn't necessary because it
Pastor Brent McQuay: was. It was very clear all the
Pastor Brent McQuay: way from. Like, Moses is the one
Pastor Brent McQuay: that hears from God and sets out.
Pastor Brent McQuay: This is what the Levites do. This
Pastor Brent McQuay: is what everybody else does. So even
Pastor Brent McQuay: though there's a king now, that same
Pastor Brent McQuay: Levitical, like this same priesthood, like, all
Pastor Brent McQuay: of that is still in operation. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: so it's like, you know, does somebody
Pastor Brent McQuay: need to come and warn me? Hey,
Pastor Brent McQuay: Brent, as a pastor, you shouldn't murder
Pastor Brent McQuay: people.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I'm sorry, I don't know why that
Ti'heasha Beasley: was like that.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Because it's ridiculous, right? Like, but that's
Pastor Brent McQuay: the same thing for salt.
Pastor Sol McQuay: You shouldn't, though.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I shouldn't, though?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Like, not even on your video game.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Salt.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Hey, now. Too far. Too far. No,
Pastor Brent McQuay: but, like, Saul does not need the
Pastor Brent McQuay: prophet to come and say, hey, kings
Pastor Brent McQuay: are not supposed to make sacrifices. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's. It's one of those where it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, it's so blatantly obvious that when
Pastor Brent McQuay: Saul rejects it and does his own
Pastor Brent McQuay: thing, it literally should make us go,
Pastor Brent McQuay: what an idiot. Like, that is so
Pastor Brent McQuay: messed up.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Like, what are you doing? Yeah. And
Pastor Sol McQuay: then in chapter 15, that. That's the
Pastor Sol McQuay: one that we unpacked yesterday. Like, fully,
Pastor Sol McQuay: fully. The very first thing that it
Pastor Sol McQuay: says in chapter 15 is, hey, the
Pastor Sol McQuay: Lord, the one that made me anoint
Pastor Sol McQuay: you as a king, has an assignment
Pastor Sol McQuay: for.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You, your boss's boss.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Like, like, like, like the guy. Right,
Pastor Sol McQuay: right. And then he goes to tell
Pastor Sol McQuay: him, you have to exterminate everybody. You
Pastor Sol McQuay: have to exterminate animals and. And every
Pastor Sol McQuay: single person and all of the things.
Pastor Sol McQuay: And don't take anything. So does he
Pastor Sol McQuay: need a warning for that? No. Like,
Pastor Sol McQuay: he had specific things that he were
Pastor Sol McQuay: supposed to do and carry out.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And he did not do it.
Pastor Sol McQuay: And he did not do it. So,
Pastor Sol McQuay: like, does he need a warning? Like,
Pastor Sol McQuay: hey, hey, you're taking stuff like, no,
Pastor Sol McQuay: he already had his instructions laid out.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Sol McQuay: And he chooses time and time again
Pastor Sol McQuay: what he's going to do.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Sol McQuay: And that's why I think the gods
Pastor Sol McQuay: in the Bible, when we read it,
Pastor Sol McQuay: God says he refuses to obey. Like,
Pastor Sol McQuay: it is not that he didn't know
Pastor Sol McQuay: that he needed to obey. He has
Pastor Sol McQuay: chosen not to do it. So that's.
Pastor Sol McQuay: That's huge. Because it is not like,
Pastor Sol McQuay: it was a mistake. It's not like
Pastor Sol McQuay: he did it one time and he
Pastor Sol McQuay: just, you know, forgot about it. Like.
Pastor Sol McQuay: No, no, no. He is deliberately choosing
Pastor Sol McQuay: to do something that he's not supposed
Pastor Sol McQuay: to. So he's refusing to obey.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah. And I mean, the thing that
Ti'heasha Beasley: God was asking him to do in
Ti'heasha Beasley: that passage was pretty tremendous. I mean,
Ti'heasha Beasley: take out everybody, everything.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Yep.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Could one argue that? You know, what's
Ti'heasha Beasley: extreme? Yeah. Like, Saul was like, you
Ti'heasha Beasley: know what? That's. Maybe God didn't mean
Ti'heasha Beasley: this.
Pastor Sol McQuay: But. But this is the thing, though,
Pastor Sol McQuay: and.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I know that, and I know that.
Pastor Sol McQuay: A lot of people are gonna. Are
Pastor Sol McQuay: gonna probably. We even mentioned. Should I
Pastor Sol McQuay: bring this up in. In the message
Pastor Sol McQuay: or not? Because I know that a
Pastor Sol McQuay: lot of people say, how can I
Pastor Sol McQuay: believe in a God that believes in
Pastor Sol McQuay: genocide? Right. Like, how can I believe
Pastor Sol McQuay: in a God that says it's okay
Pastor Sol McQuay: to kill babies and women and just
Pastor Sol McQuay: everybody? But how would you explain that
Pastor Sol McQuay: he has taken this subject before?
Pastor Brent McQuay: How much time have we got? 15
Pastor Brent McQuay: minutes. Okay. So the rapid fire version
Pastor Brent McQuay: of that is. It's a very complex
Pastor Brent McQuay: situation. It's not an easy answer. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: people who struggle with their faith because
Pastor Brent McQuay: of that passage, there's a lot of
Pastor Brent McQuay: people that do. And I get it.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I understand. If we had an hour,
Pastor Brent McQuay: we could maybe sit down and unpack
Pastor Brent McQuay: it a little bit better. But essentially
Pastor Brent McQuay: what happens, the reason why I was
Pastor Brent McQuay: shaking my head saying no is like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: for Saul's. For our context, 21st century,
Pastor Brent McQuay: we'd be like, well, that's just messed
Pastor Brent McQuay: up. In Saul's day, that was normal
Pastor Brent McQuay: practice. Like, it was, if you have
Pastor Brent McQuay: an enemy, you wipe them all out.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Because when you leave a generation alive,
Pastor Brent McQuay: what happens a generation later?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, and we actually see this happen
Pastor Brent McQuay: with. With several of God's enemies in.
Pastor Brent McQuay: In that time is when they did
Pastor Brent McQuay: not wipe out an enemy. You see
Pastor Brent McQuay: the people of Israel fighting against them.
Pastor Brent McQuay: For there's some groups for a thousand
Pastor Brent McQuay: years, they're fighting the same enemy because
Pastor Brent McQuay: they didn't do what God told them
Pastor Brent McQuay: to do. So for the Amalekites. Amalekites,
Pastor Brent McQuay: right. I always mix up Ammonites, Amalekites,
Pastor Brent McQuay: Jebusites. There's so many Ites and Canaanites.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Right. More correct than what I'm gonna
Ti'heasha Beasley: guess.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So Amalekites, and in this situation, if
Pastor Brent McQuay: you do a little bit of deeper
Pastor Brent McQuay: dive into scripture, they are the descendants
Pastor Brent McQuay: of Esau. So they're actually, I guess,
Pastor Brent McQuay: technically would be cousins to the Jewish
Pastor Brent McQuay: people. So you've got Jacob and Esau.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Right. You Go all the way back.
Pastor Brent McQuay: All the way back. So if you
Pastor Brent McQuay: trace those family lines, Jacob becomes Israel.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That's the nation. Esau's descendants become the
Pastor Brent McQuay: Amalekites. When the people of Israel are
Pastor Brent McQuay: freed from slavery in Egypt, are on
Pastor Brent McQuay: their journey to the promised land, the
Pastor Brent McQuay: first two groups of people that confront
Pastor Brent McQuay: them are basically Moses in laws and
Pastor Brent McQuay: the cousins, the Amalekites. The in laws
Pastor Brent McQuay: recognize God's blessing on Moses people. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: so they partner with them and say,
Pastor Brent McQuay: hey, we'll support you in whatever you
Pastor Brent McQuay: need, because if you're blessed, we'll be
Pastor Brent McQuay: blessed. The Amalekites take a different approach.
Pastor Brent McQuay: They're actually the first group of people
Pastor Brent McQuay: to try and attack Israel on their
Pastor Brent McQuay: march through the land. Israel never once
Pastor Brent McQuay: initiates aggression against the Amalekites. But I
Pastor Brent McQuay: think it's like four or five different
Pastor Brent McQuay: places in Scripture we see the Amalekites
Pastor Brent McQuay: try and destroy Israel. So they're, they're
Pastor Brent McQuay: on an active pursuit to wipe Israel
Pastor Brent McQuay: off of the map before they even
Pastor Brent McQuay: have a chance to really become a
Pastor Brent McQuay: nation. So in that first attack, basically
Pastor Brent McQuay: God makes this vow, this promise. He
Pastor Brent McQuay: says, I will wipe them out. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I will bring justice. And then he
Pastor Brent McQuay: holds his justice back for several generations.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But we see, it's like, it's like
Pastor Brent McQuay: 200 year, 400 year period. I forget
Pastor Brent McQuay: the numbers there. From the time, I
Pastor Brent McQuay: think it's 400 years, from the time
Pastor Brent McQuay: they leave Egypt to the time Saul
Pastor Brent McQuay: is anointed king, it's like a 400
Pastor Brent McQuay: year period. And we see time and
Pastor Brent McQuay: time again, generation after generation, the Amalekites
Pastor Brent McQuay: are attacking Israel. And so finally with
Pastor Brent McQuay: King Saul, God's like, the time has
Pastor Brent McQuay: now come where we need to put
Pastor Brent McQuay: an end to this. Because Saul's rebellion
Pastor Brent McQuay: in disobedience, in doing what he's supposed
Pastor Brent McQuay: to do, the Jewish people continue this
Pastor Brent McQuay: fight against the amalekites for another 600
Pastor Brent McQuay: years.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Wow.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So, like, the number of deaths and
Pastor Brent McQuay: all of that that happened because of
Pastor Brent McQuay: this act of disobedience is astronomical. So
Pastor Brent McQuay: that's the historical side of things. The
Pastor Brent McQuay: moral side of things is if we
Pastor Brent McQuay: look at death is not an end,
Pastor Brent McQuay: but a transition. And we have other
Pastor Brent McQuay: scriptures supporting this idea that babies go
Pastor Brent McQuay: to heaven when they die. Like, it
Pastor Brent McQuay: becomes less of a, whoa, that's really
Pastor Brent McQuay: messed up. And now it's almost like
Pastor Brent McQuay: a rescue for some of these children.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And I know that even that statement,
Pastor Brent McQuay: some people are gonna be like, that
Pastor Brent McQuay: feels dirty, that feels wrong. And I
Pastor Brent McQuay: get that. I understand this is a
Pastor Brent McQuay: complex, hard, hard issue. But yeah, it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: one of those where we could have
Pastor Brent McQuay: a lot of conversation about. There's also
Pastor Brent McQuay: a historical perspective about Near Eastern military
Pastor Brent McQuay: language conquest language. Like. Like right now
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm really hoping that this year the
Pastor Brent McQuay: Bears destroy the Packers. I just want
Pastor Brent McQuay: the Bears to just murder the Packers.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Okay.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Does that mean I want them to
Pastor Brent McQuay: actually be killed? No, it's like there's
Pastor Brent McQuay: a figurative language to this. And so
Pastor Brent McQuay: Near Eastern war language was the same
Pastor Brent McQuay: way. We see that in history, from
Pastor Brent McQuay: the Egyptians to others in that same
Pastor Brent McQuay: area and even other language of Israel
Pastor Brent McQuay: where they said we did wipe this
Pastor Brent McQuay: group of people completely off the map.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And then like one chapter later, it's.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's talking about like some of the
Pastor Brent McQuay: descendants from the people they completely wiped
Pastor Brent McQuay: off the map. And it's like, oh,
Pastor Brent McQuay: wait, that. So that doesn't actually mean
Pastor Brent McQuay: what it looks like it means. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: so some theologians will use that language
Pastor Brent McQuay: to say, well, God was never really
Pastor Brent McQuay: instructing complete genocide. It was. It was
Pastor Brent McQuay: just the way that they would communicate
Pastor Brent McQuay: war in that time. I don't know.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, yeah, that was my three minute
Pastor Brent McQuay: response.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I mean, that was.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I feel more 60 minute conversation.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Yeah, it's just. It's just hard, you
Pastor Sol McQuay: know? It is. It is hard. It
Pastor Sol McQuay: is. It is a hard thing. But.
Pastor Sol McQuay: But even in this, like, the fact
Pastor Sol McQuay: that he chose to do what he
Pastor Sol McQuay: wanted to do. And I think that
Pastor Sol McQuay: for me, something that was just so
Pastor Sol McQuay: jarring this, this time around when I
Pastor Sol McQuay: was actually studying is the fact that
Pastor Sol McQuay: it says that they only left what
Pastor Sol McQuay: was a poor quality or that they
Pastor Sol McQuay: were just like.
Pastor Brent McQuay: They only destroyed what was poor quality.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Destroyed what it was poor quality. Yeah,
Pastor Sol McQuay: like. Like, I don't. We don't care
Pastor Sol McQuay: about this. So. Yeah, I can go.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Like what is completely. Yes. Complete disregard
Pastor Sol McQuay: for God's instructions.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And he claims it's going to be
Pastor Brent McQuay: for a sacrifice to. To God, but
Pastor Brent McQuay: that he doesn't say that in the
Pastor Brent McQuay: chapter, the verses leading up to it.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's only when he's confronted where he's
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, oh, it was an offering. It's
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, really? Really, bro? Was that really
Pastor Brent McQuay: what you were doing? I don't think
Pastor Brent McQuay: so.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Offering to his himself.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Right, exactly.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It was another monument to himself.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah. Oh, my gosh.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah. That whole. Yeah, there's a lot.
Pastor Sol McQuay: The whole thing.
Ti'heasha Beasley: The whole thing. You're right. It's tragic.
Pastor Sol McQuay: And we didn't even keep on going
Pastor Sol McQuay: like we are a chap. Like we
Pastor Sol McQuay: ended up chapter 15. Saul's life goes
Pastor Sol McQuay: all the way to chapter 31.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And it doesn't get any better.
Pastor Sol McQuay: It doesn't get any better. That is
Pastor Sol McQuay: him just crazy trying to kill David.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But from, from chapter 16 to chapter
Pastor Brent McQuay: 31, he's no longer hearing from God.
Pastor Brent McQuay: He's no longer receiving instruction, man.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And that was such a good point.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Point that you brought up in your
Ti'heasha Beasley: message yesterday. Like, you know, in that
Ti'heasha Beasley: day, it was because Samuel was like
Ti'heasha Beasley: the voice that God was using to
Ti'heasha Beasley: speak to Saul. And it was like,
Ti'heasha Beasley: you're not going to have this communication
Ti'heasha Beasley: anymore.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I couldn't even imagine not hearing from
Ti'heasha Beasley: God anymore.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: In any type of state or position.
Ti'heasha Beasley: But, man, it's a real thing of
Ti'heasha Beasley: how you can. Okay, so let's unpack
Ti'heasha Beasley: this. Can you lose. I don't want
Ti'heasha Beasley: to say salvation, but can you lose
Ti'heasha Beasley: connection with God if you. There's a
Ti'heasha Beasley: scripture that talks, talks about God giving
Ti'heasha Beasley: you over to a reprobated mind. Is
Ti'heasha Beasley: that something that can happen in a
Ti'heasha Beasley: belief in someone's life? I don't know.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Can we call them believers if God
Ti'heasha Beasley: has given them over at some point?
Pastor Sol McQuay: But I. I think that a lot
Pastor Sol McQuay: of people. And I hear. And I
Pastor Sol McQuay: have this, I have heard this many,
Pastor Sol McQuay: many, many, many times. You know, people
Pastor Sol McQuay: coming and saying, I want a new
Pastor Sol McQuay: war from God. I want God to
Pastor Sol McQuay: speak to me. I want a new
Pastor Sol McQuay: word from God. And everybody wants a
Pastor Sol McQuay: new revelation and a new word and
Pastor Sol McQuay: a new thing. But they are saying,
Pastor Sol McQuay: you know, like. But I feel like
Pastor Sol McQuay: God is silent. Have you done the
Pastor Sol McQuay: last thing that he told you to
Pastor Sol McQuay: do? You know, because. Because you want
Pastor Sol McQuay: him to speak to you, but he
Pastor Sol McQuay: gives you instructions and you don't do
Pastor Sol McQuay: it. So at some point it's like,
Pastor Sol McQuay: what is the point of me speaking
Pastor Sol McQuay: to you if you're not going to
Pastor Sol McQuay: listen?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Just to say that you hear my
Pastor Sol McQuay: voice.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Thanks.
Pastor Sol McQuay: You know what I'm saying? So I
Pastor Sol McQuay: think that a lot of people are
Pastor Sol McQuay: going around wanting a new revelation when
Pastor Sol McQuay: God already spoke. You just need to
Pastor Sol McQuay: obey.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, that's good.
Pastor Sol McQuay: So instead of just keep looking for,
Pastor Sol McQuay: like, when is God gonna tell me
Pastor Sol McQuay: new things? Well, do keep doing the
Pastor Sol McQuay: old things.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And man, there's a tried and true
Pastor Brent McQuay: method. You want to hear from God,
Pastor Brent McQuay: Open up your Bible.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Yes.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Every time you read it, he's speaking.
Pastor Brent McQuay: There you go. Boom.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Yes.
Ti'heasha Beasley: So technically, he won't ever stop speaking
Ti'heasha Beasley: to you if you read your Bible.
Pastor Sol McQuay: I mean, if you seek him.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Sol McQuay: He will speak to us.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah. But as far as, like, that
Pastor Brent McQuay: whole closed off, like, I think that
Pastor Brent McQuay: that's a legit thing. I mean, we
Pastor Brent McQuay: read about Pharaoh it's like, pharaoh, harden
Pastor Brent McQuay: his heart. Pharaoh, harden his heart. Pharaoh,
Pastor Brent McQuay: harden his heart. Hardened his heart. It's
Pastor Brent McQuay: like five or six times. And then
Pastor Brent McQuay: the next time we read it, it's,
Pastor Brent McQuay: God hardened Pharaoh's heart. Like, it's like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: yeah. At some point, God was like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: okay, I gave you opportunity. I gave
Pastor Brent McQuay: you chances, and now we're done.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so, like, I. I think that
Pastor Brent McQuay: that could be a very real thing.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's not something that sounds pretty or
Pastor Brent McQuay: something that we want to talk about.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And I think that the reality is
Pastor Brent McQuay: if. Even. Even in that if Pharaoh
Pastor Brent McQuay: had repented, I think that God's judgment
Pastor Brent McQuay: would have. Would have been a beast,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, in that moment. And so, like
Pastor Brent McQuay: today, like, even if you feel like
Pastor Brent McQuay: you God has stopped speaking to you
Pastor Brent McQuay: or has rejected you in some way,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, grace is the fact that we
Pastor Brent McQuay: can always repent. It's just. I think
Pastor Brent McQuay: that for somebody that has reached that
Pastor Brent McQuay: level, they would never come to the
Pastor Brent McQuay: place of, I can repent. And I
Pastor Brent McQuay: think that's what makes it look different.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah. It's definitely a compare contrast situation
Ti'heasha Beasley: between David and Saul and that Huge.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Huge.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Because they both mess up.
Ti'heasha Beasley: They do.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But their reactions to messing up are
Pastor Brent McQuay: so completely different.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I mean, David immediately just says, I've
Pastor Brent McQuay: sinned against the Lord.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Whereas even when Saul finally admits, I
Pastor Brent McQuay: have sinned, it's still. It's wrapped in
Pastor Brent McQuay: excuses and denials and justifications. And even
Pastor Brent McQuay: after that, yet, like, yes, I. I've
Pastor Brent McQuay: sinned, but I need the people to
Pastor Brent McQuay: think that I'm okay. Right. Like, between
Pastor Brent McQuay: you and me, I sinned. But for
Pastor Brent McQuay: my face to the people come back
Pastor Brent McQuay: and, you know, honor me by. By
Pastor Brent McQuay: making these sacrifices of the things that
Pastor Brent McQuay: I kept alive. And it's like, no,
Pastor Brent McQuay: that. That reaction and David's reaction, totally
Pastor Brent McQuay: different.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Yeah. And I think that it is
Pastor Sol McQuay: just the fact that David's heart was
Pastor Sol McQuay: truly broken for what he had done.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Sol McQuay: And I think that for Saul, his
Pastor Sol McQuay: morale was broken. Like, he's like. Like
Pastor Sol McQuay: his. His ego was wounded, but not
Pastor Sol McQuay: his heart.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah. And I liked. The biggest thing
Ti'heasha Beasley: that I like to compare is that
Ti'heasha Beasley: David, he went back when he was
Ti'heasha Beasley: chosen to be king. He went back
Ti'heasha Beasley: and served. As soon as Saul was
Ti'heasha Beasley: chosen, he went into full it's about
Ti'heasha Beasley: me mode. And, you know, I think
Ti'heasha Beasley: that's a clear distinction of, like, man.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That's a red flag right there. If
Ti'heasha Beasley: you're chosen for something and you say,
Ti'heasha Beasley: oh, how can I make this whole
Ti'heasha Beasley: thing about me?
Pastor Sol McQuay: Yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That's. You need to just. Community chime
Ti'heasha Beasley: in. You know what I mean?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Spoilers for next week. So, like, if
Pastor Brent McQuay: your calling gives you pride and arrogance
Pastor Brent McQuay: of, like, look at me, there's something
Pastor Brent McQuay: beautiful next week. We're talking about Esther.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And there's something amazing in Esther's story
Pastor Brent McQuay: that sometimes we just gloss over because
Pastor Brent McQuay: we love the part where it says,
Pastor Brent McQuay: for such a time as this, right?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, we grab a hold of that.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I mean, it's T shirts everywhere.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But what Mordecai says right before that
Pastor Brent McQuay: is, salvation will come from somewhere else.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, Esther, if you don't do it.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Somebody else, you don't do it.
Pastor Brent McQuay: God's still gonna make this thing happen.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's not you that's so special. It's
Pastor Brent McQuay: God, and he's chosen you for this
Pastor Brent McQuay: moment. But don't mess it up. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: don't. Don't mix this up. If you
Pastor Brent McQuay: say no, God's gonna say, fine, I'll
Pastor Brent McQuay: use somebody else.
Pastor Sol McQuay: But he's gonna save his people.
Pastor Brent McQuay: God is still gonna save his people.
Pastor Brent McQuay: God is still gonna accomplish what he
Pastor Brent McQuay: wants to accomplish on this Earth, whether
Pastor Brent McQuay: you're a part of or not. So
Pastor Brent McQuay: when we're called if that gives us
Pastor Brent McQuay: this arrogance of, like, look how.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Special I am, bro, you will be
Ti'heasha Beasley: rejected.
Pastor Sol McQuay: You will miss it because. Yeah, no,
Pastor Sol McQuay: you will miss it 100% because we.
Pastor Sol McQuay: And that's what I was saying earlier.
Pastor Sol McQuay: It should give us this sense of
Pastor Sol McQuay: honor that we get to be a
Pastor Sol McQuay: part of it. Like, if you don't.
Pastor Sol McQuay: If you don't choose to be a
Pastor Sol McQuay: part of it, God's still gonna do
Pastor Sol McQuay: it, but you're the one that is
Pastor Sol McQuay: missing out, you know? But his. His.
Pastor Sol McQuay: His will for this Earth will be
Pastor Sol McQuay: accomplished. What he wants to do will
Pastor Sol McQuay: be accomplished. Do you want to be
Pastor Sol McQuay: a part of it, or you just
Pastor Sol McQuay: want to watch it?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Okay, this is too much. This episode
Ti'heasha Beasley: is. I'm completely on fire, and we
Ti'heasha Beasley: are completely out of time. But this
Ti'heasha Beasley: was such a great episode. Okay, quick
Ti'heasha Beasley: takeaways. Quick takeaway as we land this
Ti'heasha Beasley: plane.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Is that you have a call. You
Pastor Sol McQuay: have been called to know God. You
Pastor Sol McQuay: have been called to walk closely with
Pastor Sol McQuay: God and to go and make disciples.
Pastor Sol McQuay: That's the call that we all share.
Pastor Sol McQuay: How it looks like it's different. So
Pastor Sol McQuay: you have to do those things in
Pastor Sol McQuay: whatever place you are. So just remember
Pastor Sol McQuay: that the call of God on your
Pastor Sol McQuay: life, first and foremost, is to know
Pastor Sol McQuay: him, is to be close to him.
Pastor Sol McQuay: And then from that, everything else will
Pastor Sol McQuay: stem out. So if you are not
Pastor Sol McQuay: having constant communication with God, everything else
Pastor Sol McQuay: will fall apart at some point. So
Pastor Sol McQuay: your Biggest call is the call to
Pastor Sol McQuay: Jesus. So follow Jesus. Follow. Follow Jesus.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Love Jesus. Get to know Jesus, you
Pastor Sol McQuay: know, because from there, everything else will
Pastor Sol McQuay: take place.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yep. That's good.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I love it. I would say when
Pastor Brent McQuay: you read Saul's story, read it as
Pastor Brent McQuay: a mirror for your own life to
Pastor Brent McQuay: reflect. Like, where am I matching Saul?
Pastor Brent McQuay: I loved your question. You know, does
Pastor Brent McQuay: my level of obedience look a lot
Pastor Brent McQuay: like Saul's level of obedience?
Pastor Sol McQuay: Meaning not at all.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Exactly. So. So, yeah. So when you
Pastor Brent McQuay: read Saul's story, it's not a window
Pastor Brent McQuay: into. Look at how messed up this
Pastor Brent McQuay: guy was.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Is.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, it's. Am I as messed up
Pastor Brent McQuay: as this guy is?
Ti'heasha Beasley: That's good. These are all good. I
Ti'heasha Beasley: will say mine is one of the
Ti'heasha Beasley: quotes you put in your sermon, and
Ti'heasha Beasley: I loved it so much. Your calling
Ti'heasha Beasley: will get you in the room, but
Ti'heasha Beasley: your character will keep you there. And
Ti'heasha Beasley: so it's really not an extra point.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I think it kind of closes in
Ti'heasha Beasley: on what you guys both said. And
Ti'heasha Beasley: so I will just encourage you, man,
Ti'heasha Beasley: go watch that sermon. It is live
Ti'heasha Beasley: right now on YouTube @we are Disciples
Ti'heasha Beasley: Church. And you're probably there because this
Ti'heasha Beasley: is where the sermon is. So just
Ti'heasha Beasley: scroll on down and watch that episode.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Thank you guys for your feedback. We've
Ti'heasha Beasley: been getting more comments. I love that.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And by the way, people, like, when
Ti'heasha Beasley: I say, let's land this plane, and
Ti'heasha Beasley: someone said in the comments, put it
Ti'heasha Beasley: on a T shirt. So let's.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Let's land this plane.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Can we do it?
Pastor Sol McQuay: Let's get off the Runway.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Would it be weird to wear that
Pastor Brent McQuay: T shirt on, like, an airplane?
Pastor Sol McQuay: Like, let's land this plane.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It would be weird.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, people would be like, I agree.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I agree.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Now I feel like we need all
Pastor Sol McQuay: of the airport references. Let's take off.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Let's take off.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Please don't. Don't encourage her.
Pastor Sol McQuay: Put your mask before you put somebody
Pastor Sol McQuay: else's mask on.
Ti'heasha Beasley: You know, spiritually love it. This is
Ti'heasha Beasley: why I love. I love spiritually free
Ti'heasha Beasley: peanuts.
Pastor Brent McQuay: What. What else works here?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Anyway, we're having so much fun here,
Ti'heasha Beasley: but we pray that God is with
Ti'heasha Beasley: you this week. He is with you,
Ti'heasha Beasley: and we pray that you just enjoy
Ti'heasha Beasley: this message, share it with your friends,
Ti'heasha Beasley: and, yeah, until next time, we love
Ti'heasha Beasley: you.